doc: add Gazell and NFC sections in the power optimization guide. (#13743)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/test_and_optimize/optimizing/power_general.rst

The Bluetooth Mesh protocol offers the :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_configuring_lpn` feature for optimizing the power consumption of the Bluetooth Mesh devices.

Gazell
======

Gazell is an asymmetrical protocol where the Device role is power-optimized.

> The exact current consumption depends on a number of parameters that are defined statically in the :ref:`nrfxlib:gzll_constants`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exact current consumption depends on a number of parameters that are defined statically in the API.
See the Constants section of the :ref:`Gazell Link Layer API documentation <nrfxlib:gzll_api>`.
```
This link failed the doc build. Now, it should be ok. Feel free to change the wording if this proposed text does not work.

Author: Fixed.

> The exact current consumption will depend on a number of parameters, which are defined statically in the :ref:`nrfxlib:gzll_constants`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exact current consumption depends on a number of parameters that are defined statically in the :ref:`nrfxlib:gzll_constants`.
```

Author: fixed

> The exact current consumption will depend on a number of parameters, which are defined statically in the :ref:`nrfxlib:gzll_constants`.

Reviewer 2: The definitions in "nrf_gzll_constants.h" file are provided as a reference. The users usually call GZLL API to modify the runtime parameters.

I am no expert in optimizing Gazell power consumption. Let me check with DevZone and get back to you.

Author: Thanks, then, once we have feedback form devzone I'll modify the text slightly. Are these values from "nrf_gzll_constants.h" the default ones, and then get modified through APIs in runtime?

Reviewer 2: Yes, you get the right idea.

The most important parameters from the current consumption point of view are:

> * :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_TX_POWER` - it can be used to find a trade off between communication range and current consumption.
> * :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_TIMESLOT_PERIOD`, and :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_TIMESLOTS_PER_CHANNEL`, - they can be used to find a trade off between communication latency and current consumption.
> * :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_MAX_TX_ATTEMPTS` - it can be used to find a trade off between reliability and current consumption.
> * :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_TIMESLOTS_PER_CHANNEL_WHEN_DEVICE_OUT_OF_SYNC` - it can be used to find a trade off between synchronization time and current consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_TX_POWER` - can be used to find a trade off between communication range and current consumption.
* :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_TIMESLOT_PERIOD` and :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_TIMESLOTS_PER_CHANNEL` - can be used to find a trade off between communication latency and current consumption.
* :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_MAX_TX_ATTEMPTS` - can be used to find a trade off between reliability and current consumption.
* :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_TIMESLOTS_PER_CHANNEL_WHEN_DEVICE_OUT_OF_SYNC` - can be used to find a trade off between synchronization time and current consumption.
```

Author: fixed

Matter
======

To optimize the power consumption of your Matter application, complete the actions listed on the :ref:`ug_matter_device_low_power_configuration` page.

NFC
===

> The |NCS| provides implemenations of two NFC libraries :ref:nrfxlib:`type_2_tag` and :ref:nrfxlib:`type_4_tag`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |NCS| provides implementations of two NFC libraries, :ref:`nrfxlib:type_2_tag` and :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag`.
```

Author: fixed

> If you want to implement a read-only NFC tag with a short NDEF payload, use the :ref:nrfxlib:`type_2_tag` library, which implements a more lightweight protocol and therefore consumes less energy than the :ref:nrfxlib:`type_4_tag` library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to implement a read-only NFC tag with a short NDEF payload, use the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_2_tag` library that implements a more lightweight protocol and therefore consumes less energy than the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag` library.
```

> For larger payloads the :ref:nrfxlib:`type_4_tag` library may be more power-efficient, as it allows exchanging longer frames which can shorten the overall data exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For larger payloads, the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag` library may be more power-efficient, as it allows exchanging longer frames, which can shorten the overall data exchange.
```

Author: fixed

> The above recommendations are very generic, because the actual performance depends also on the capabilities of the NFC Poller device which reads the tag, so each specific use case needs separate analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above recommendations are very generic, because the actual performance depends also on the capabilities of the NFC Poller device that reads the tag, so each specific use case needs separate analysis.
```

Author: fixed

> The NFC libraries don't provide any configuration options that significantly affect current consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NFC libraries do not provide any configuration options that have a significant impact on current consumption.
```

Author: fixed

> Note, that NFC can wake your application up from SYSTEM OFF, so using this mode and NFC as a wakeup source can be a way to reduce current consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NFC can wake your application up from SYSTEM OFF, so using this mode and NFC as a wakeup source can be a way to reduce current consumption.
```

Author: fixed

The Bluetooth Mesh protocol offers the :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_configuring_lpn` feature for optimizing the power consumption of the Bluetooth Mesh devices.

Gazell
======

Gazell is an asymmetrical protocol where the Device role is power-optimized.
The exact current consumption depends on a number of parameters that are defined statically in the API.
See the Constants section of the :ref:`Gazell Link Layer API documentation <nrfxlib:gzll_api>`.
The most important parameters from the current consumption point of view are:

> * :c:macro:`NRF_GZLL_DEFAULT_TX_POWER` - can be used to find a trade off between communication range and current consumption.

Reviewer 2: The general recommendations also mention radio TX power. Is this line duplicate?

[Configure radio transmitter power](https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/test_and_optimize/optimizing/power_general.html#configure-radio-transmitter-power)

Author: May be, it's kind of obvious anyway. I am going to rephrase the docs a bit to refer to API functions rather than the constants. Do you have any conclusions on Gazell power optimization based on Devzone?

The Bluetooth Mesh protocol offers the :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_configuring_lpn` feature for optimizing the power consumption of the Bluetooth Mesh devices.

Gazell
======

Gazell is an asymmetrical protocol where the Device role is power-optimized.
The :ref:`Gazell Link Layer API <nrfxlib:gzll_api>` provides functions for setting protocol parameters, including those that affect current consumption.

> From the point of view of power optimization, the most important functions are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the power optimization point of view, the most important functions are:
```

Author: fixed

> * :c:func:`nrf_gzll_set_tx_power`.
> * :c:func:`nrf_gzll_set_sync_lifetime` - adapt this parameter based on how often the application sends data to Host.
> When the link is synchronized, packets are transmitted faster, but an additional timer is running, consuming more current.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :c:func:`nrf_gzll_set_tx_power`
* :c:func:`nrf_gzll_set_sync_lifetime` - adapt this parameter based on how often the application sends data to Host.

   When the link is synchronized, packets are transmitted faster, but an additional timer is running, consuming more current.

```

Author: fixed

> However, when out of sync, sending a single packet may require multiple transmissions until Device and Host find each other on the same channel at the same time.
> * :c:func:`nrf_gzll_set_max_tx_attempts` - in poor RF conditions, retransmissions of each packet may be required thus increasing the current consumption.
> Note, that setting the value zero means unlimited retransmissions until a packet gets acknowledged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   However, when the link is out of sync, sending a single packet may require multiple transmissions until Device and Host find each other on the same channel at the same time.

* :c:func:`nrf_gzll_set_max_tx_attempts` - in poor RF conditions, retransmissions of each packet may be required, thus increasing the current consumption.

   Setting the value zero means unlimited retransmissions until a packet gets acknowledged.
```

Author: fixed

Matter
======

To optimize the power consumption of your Matter application, complete the actions listed on the :ref:`ug_matter_device_low_power_configuration` page.

NFC
===

> The |NCS| provides implementations of two NFC libraries, :ref:`nrfxlib:type_2_tag` and :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag`.
> If you want to implement a read-only NFC tag with a short NDEF payload, use the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_2_tag` library that implements a more lightweight protocol and therefore consumes less energy than the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag` library.
> For larger payloads, the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag` library may be more power-efficient, as it allows exchanging longer frames, which can shorten the overall data exchange.
> The above recommendations are very generic, because the actual performance depends also on the capabilities of the NFC Poller device that reads the tag, so each specific use case needs separate analysis.
> The NFC libraries do not provide any configuration options that have a significant impact on current consumption.
> NFC can wake your application up from SYSTEM OFF, so using this mode and NFC as a wakeup source can be a way to reduce current consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |NCS| provides implementations of two NFC libraries, :ref:`nrfxlib:type_2_tag` and :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag`.

If you want to implement a read-only NFC tag with a short NDEF payload, use the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_2_tag` library that implements a more lightweight protocol and therefore consumes less energy than the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag` library.
For larger payloads, the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag` library may be more power-efficient, as it allows exchanging longer frames, which can shorten the overall data exchange.

These recommendations are very generic, because the actual performance depends also on the capabilities of the NFC Poller device that reads the tag, so each specific use case needs separate analysis.

The NFC libraries do not provide any configuration options that have a significant impact on current consumption.
NFC can wake your application up from SYSTEM OFF, so using this mode and NFC as a wakeup source can be a way to reduce current consumption.
```

Author: fixed

The Bluetooth Mesh protocol offers the :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_configuring_lpn` feature for optimizing the power consumption of the Bluetooth Mesh devices.

Gazell
======

> Gazell is an asymmetrical protocol where the Device role is power-optimized.

Reviewer 2: Is it possible to add such a point? It is how wireless keyboard and mouse conserve battery in real life.

A Gazell device attains lowest power consumption in idle times.

The Bluetooth Mesh protocol offers the :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_configuring_lpn` feature for optimizing the power consumption of the Bluetooth Mesh devices.

Gazell
======

Gazell is an asymmetrical protocol where the Device role is power-optimized.
A Gazell Device attains the lowest current consumption in idle times.
The :ref:`Gazell Link Layer API <nrfxlib:gzll_api>` provides functions for setting protocol parameters, including those that affect current consumption.
From the power optimization point of view, the most important functions are:

> * :c:func:`nrf_gzll_set_tx_power`

Author: fixed

> * :c:func:`nrf_gzll_set_sync_lifetime` - adapt this parameter based on how often the application sends data to Host.

Author: fixed

  When the link is synchronized, packets are transmitted faster, but an additional timer is running, consuming more current.
  However, when the link is out of sync, sending a single packet may require multiple transmissions until Device and Host find each other on the same channel at the same time.

> * :c:func:`nrf_gzll_set_max_tx_attempts` - in poor RF conditions, retransmissions of each packet may be required, thus increasing the current consumption.

Author: fixed

  Setting the value zero means unlimited retransmissions until a packet gets acknowledged.

Matter
======

To optimize the power consumption of your Matter application, complete the actions listed on the :ref:`ug_matter_device_low_power_configuration` page.

NFC
===

The |NCS| provides implementations of two NFC libraries, :ref:`nrfxlib:type_2_tag` and :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag`.

If you want to implement a read-only NFC tag with a short NDEF payload, use the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_2_tag` library that implements a more lightweight protocol and therefore consumes less energy than the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag` library.
For larger payloads, the :ref:`nrfxlib:type_4_tag` library may be more power-efficient, as it allows exchanging longer frames, which can shorten the overall data exchange.

> These recommendations are very generic, because the actual performance depends also on the capabilities of the NFC polling device that reads the tag, so each specific use case needs separate analysis.

Author: ixed

The NFC libraries do not provide any configuration options that have a significant impact on current consumption.

> NFC can wake your application up from SYSTEM OFF, so using this mode and NFC as a wakeup source can be a way to reduce current consumption.

Author: fixed
